Add: Zombie Flags Report Documentation (#530)
configcat/docs: website/docs/zombie-flags.mdx

- A decision was made to always keep a feature on or off, making the flag redundant.
- The flag hasn't been toggled or referenced for an extended period.

## Why Removing Zombie Flags Matters

Leaving stale flags in your code can lead to the following:
- **Increased complexity:** Unused flags clutter code and reduce maintainability.
- **Unexpected behavior:** Outdated flags might trigger legacy logic unintentionally.
- **Longer onboarding and reviews:** Developers waste time reviewing obsolete logic.
- **Performance degradation:** In large-scale systems, excess flags can slow down operations.

## Managing Zombie Flags in ConfigCat

There are three ways to access and manage Zombie flags in ConfigCat:

- Through the [Dashboard](https://app.configcat.com/product/zombie-flags).
- Using the [Zombie Flags Email Report](https://app.configcat.com/my-account/zombie-flags-report).
- Via the [Zombie Flags API](https://api.configcat.com/docs/index.html#tag/Zombie-(stale)-flags).

### Using the Dashboard

The [Zombie flags page](https://app.configcat.com/product/zombie-flags) shows all the stale flags in a table for the selected product based on the filters set:

> - **Inactivity**: How long the flag was inactive for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Inactivity**: How long the flag was inactive. 
```

- **Feature flag scope**: Choose between all feature flags or only those you are watching. 
- **Included environments**: The ConfigCat [environment(s)](https://configcat.com/docs/main-concepts/#environment) to include in the analysis. 
- **Ignored flags based on tags**: Exclude flags based on assigned tags. 
- **Stale in all/any selected environments**: Choose whether to include flags that are stale in all or any of the selected environments.

> - **Filter by config or feature flag name**: Type at least the first letter of the feature flag or config name to auto-filter the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Filter by config or feature flag name**: Start typing to filter the list automatically. 
```

---
id: zombie-flags
title: Zombie Flags
description: This page explains how to identify and manage Zombie Flags in ConfigCat through the dashboard, email reports, or the Zombie Flags API.
---

> Zombie flags are feature flags that are no longer needed or actively used. They often remain in the codebase long after their purpose has been fulfilled. Removing these outdated flags can reduce technical debt, improve performance, and simplify your codebase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Zombie flags (stale flags) are feature flags that are no longer needed or actively used. They often remain in the codebase long after their purpose has been fulfilled. Removing these outdated flags can reduce technical debt, improve performance, and simplify your codebase.
```

- The flag hasn't been toggled or referenced for an extended period.

## Why Removing Zombie Flags Matters

Leaving stale flags in your code can lead to the following:
- **Increased complexity:** Unused flags clutter code and reduce maintainability.
- **Unexpected behavior:** Outdated flags might trigger legacy logic unintentionally.
- **Longer onboarding and reviews:** Developers waste time reviewing obsolete logic.
- **Performance degradation:** In large-scale systems, excess flags can slow down operations.

## Managing Zombie Flags in ConfigCat

There are three ways to access and manage Zombie flags in ConfigCat:

- Through the [Dashboard](https://app.configcat.com/product/zombie-flags).
- Using the [Zombie Flags Email Report](https://app.configcat.com/my-account/zombie-flags-report).
- Via the [Zombie Flags API](https://api.configcat.com/docs/index.html#tag/Zombie-(stale)-flags).

### Using the Dashboard

The [Zombie flags page](https://app.configcat.com/product/zombie-flags) shows all the stale flags in a table for the selected product based on the filters set:

- **Inactivity**: How long the flag was inactive for.

> - **Feature flag scope**: All flags or only ones that are watched by you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Feature flag scope**: Choose between all feature flags or only those you are watching. 
```

> - **Included environments**: The ConfigCat [environment](https://configcat.com/docs/main-concepts/#environment) for which you want to analyze flags. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Included environments**: The ConfigCat [environment(s)](https://configcat.com/docs/main-concepts/#environment) to include in the analysis. 
```

> - **Ignored flags based on tags**: The flags to exclude based on their tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Ignored flags based on tags**: Exclude flags based on assigned tags. 
```

- **Stale in all/any selected environments**: Choose whether to include flags that are stale in all or any of the selected environments.
- **Filter by config or feature flag name**: Type at least the first letter of the feature flag or config name to auto-filter the results.

<img alt="The Zombie Flags page in the ConfigCat dashboard" src="/docs/assets/guide/my-zombie-flags-report/the-zombie-flags-page-in-the-dashboard_192dpi.png" width="1366" height="768"  decoding="async" loading="lazy" />

By default, the Zombie Flags page will filter the zombie flags based on the filters set in the **My Zombie Flags Report** page.

:::info
If you have the [Code References](https://configcat.com/docs/advanced/code-references/overview/) feature enabled, you can also see where the flags are used in your code.
:::

### Using the Zombie Flags Report Email

> The Zombie Flags Report scans your ConfigCat dashboard and sends an email report of the feature flags that haven't been updated or toggled within a specified time frame.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Zombie Flags Report scans your ConfigCat dashboard and sends an email report of the feature flags that haven't been updated or toggled within the configured timeframe.
```

> You could customize the report to include only the flags you want to track, similar to filtering in the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize the report to include only the flags you want to track, using filters similar to those available in the dashboard.
```

#### How to Set Up the Zombie Feature Flags Report

1. Log in to the [ConfigCat dashboard](https://app.configcat.com/my-account/zombie-flags-report).

> 2. Click the Organization name in the top-right corner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click the Organization name in the top-left corner.
```

3. Select  **My Zombie Flags Report** from the dropdown menu. 

<img alt="Navigating to My Zombie Flags Report" src="/docs/assets/guide/my-zombie-flags-report/navigating-to-my-zombie-flags-report_192dpi.png" width="1366" height="768"  decoding="async" loading="lazy" />

#### The My Zombie Flags Report Page

The email report could be customized as follows:

> - **Receive report via email:** Toggle this option to enable the email report, and specify how often you'd like to receive the report (e.g., daily, weekly, or monthly).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Receive report via email:** Turn on email notifications and set the frequency (daily, weekly, monthly).
```

- **Criteria:** Define how long a flag must be inactive before it's marked as stale.

> - **Scope:** Choose to include all feature flags or only the ones you're watching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Scope:** Include all flags or only watched ones. 
```

> - **Environment:** Select the ConfigCat [environment](https://configcat.com/docs/main-concepts/#environment) for which you want to analyze flags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Environment:** Choose the ConfigCat [environment(s)](https://configcat.com/docs/main-concepts/#environment) you want to analyze. 
```

> - **Tags:** Select the flags you want to ignore in the report based on their tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Tags:** Exclude specific flags based on tags. 
```

- **Stale in all/any selected environments:** Choose whether to include flags that are stale in all or any of the selected environments.

<img alt="My Zombie Flags Report page in the dashboard" src="/docs/assets/guide/my-zombie-flags-report/my-zombie-flags-report-page-in-the-dashboard_192dpi.png" width="1366" height="1044" decoding="async" loading="lazy" />

#### Sample Email Report

Here's a preview of what the Zombie Flags report email looks like:

<img alt="Zombie Flags Report Email" src="/docs/assets/guide/my-zombie-flags-report/zombie-flags-report-email_192dpi.png" width="1366" height="768" decoding="async" loading="lazy" />

### Using the Zombie Flags API

> The [Zombie Flags API](https://api.configcat.com/docs/index.html#tag/Zombie-(stale)-flags) allows you to access your zombie flags using an API endpoint programmatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Zombie Flags API](https://api.configcat.com/docs/index.html#tag/Zombie-(stale)-flags) allows programmatic access to zombie flag data. This is useful for integrating flag cleanup processes into your CI/CD workflows or internal tooling.
```

> Here's a preview of what it looks like in Postman:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use tools like Postman to retrieve zombie flag data via the API for testing or integration. Here's a preview of what it looks like in Postman:
```

- A decision was made to always keep a feature on or off, making the flag redundant.
- The flag hasn't been toggled or referenced for an extended period.

## Why Removing Zombie Flags Matters

Leaving stale flags in your code can lead to the following:
- **Increased complexity:** Unused flags clutter code and reduce maintainability.
- **Unexpected behavior:** Outdated flags might trigger legacy logic unintentionally.
- **Longer onboarding and reviews:** Developers waste time reviewing obsolete logic.
- **Performance degradation:** In large-scale systems, excess flags can slow down operations.

## Managing Zombie Flags in ConfigCat

There are three ways to access and manage Zombie flags in ConfigCat:

- Through the [Dashboard](https://app.configcat.com/product/zombie-flags).
- Using the [Zombie Flags Email Report](https://app.configcat.com/my-account/zombie-flags-report).
- Via the [Zombie Flags API](https://api.configcat.com/docs/index.html#tag/Zombie-(stale)-flags).

### Using the Dashboard

Using the Dashboard is the quickest way to view your zombie flags. Here's how to access the Zombie Flags page:

> 1. In the [organization overview page](https://app.configcat.com/organization), select the product.

Reviewer 2: I think we should only give the https://app.configcat.com/product/zombie-flags url here without this step by step guide. And i think the first screenshot is not necessary.

I'd remove the "Here's how to access the Zombie Flags page:" part and the step by step and simply make the Zombie flags page a link in the "The Zombie flags page shows all the stale flags in a table for the selected product based on the filters set:" sentence.

2. Select **Zombie flags** from the product menu at the top of the page.

<img alt="Navigating to Zombie Flags in the ConfigCat dashboard" src="/docs/assets/guide/my-zombie-flags-report/navigating-to-zombie-flags-in-the-dashboard_192dpi.png" width="1366" height="768"  decoding="async" loading="lazy" />

The Zombie flags page shows all the stale flags in a table for the selected product based on the filters set:

- **Inactivity**: How long the flag was inactive for.

> - **Feature flag scope**: All flags or only ones that are watched.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Feature flag scope**: All flags or only ones that are watched by you.
```

- **Included environments**: The ConfigCat [environment](https://configcat.com/docs/main-concepts/#environment) for which you want to analyze flags. 
- **Ignored flags based on tags**: The flags to exclude based on their tags.
- **Stale in all/any selected environments**: Choose whether to include flags that are stale in all or any of the selected environments.

> - **Filter by config or feature flag name**: Type at least the first letter of the feature flag or config name to auto-filter the results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Filter by config or feature flag name**: Type at least the first letter of the feature flag or config name to filter the results.
```

> <img alt="Navigating to Zombie Flags in the ConfigCat dashboard" src="/docs/assets/guide/my-zombie-flags-report/the-zombie-flags-page-in-the-dashboard_192dpi.png" width="1366" height="768"  decoding="async" loading="lazy" />

Reviewer 2: I think the alt tag is not correct here.

Reviewer 2: I fixed the +tag button style, it looks awful in this small resolution. Could you please retake the screenshot after it is fixed? Thanks!

The Zombie Flags Report scans your ConfigCat dashboard and sends an email report of the feature flags that haven't been updated or toggled within a specified time frame.

You could customize the report to include only the flags you want to track, similar to filtering in the dashboard.

#### How to Set Up the Zombie Feature Flags Report

1. Log in to the [ConfigCat dashboard](https://app.configcat.com/my-account/zombie-flags-report).
2. Click the Organization name in the top-right corner.
3. Select  **My Zombie Flags Report** from the dropdown menu. 

<img alt="Navigating to My Zombie Flags Report" src="/docs/assets/guide/my-zombie-flags-report/navigating-to-my-zombie-flags-report_192dpi.png" width="1366" height="768"  decoding="async" loading="lazy" />

#### The My Zombie Flags Report Page

The email report could be customized as follows:

- **Receive report via email:** Toggle this option to enable the email report, and specify how often you'd like to receive the report (e.g., daily, weekly, or monthly).

- **Criteria:** Define how long a flag must be inactive before it's marked as stale.

- **Scope:** Choose to include all feature flags or only the ones you're watching. 

>   - **Environment:** Select the ConfigCat [environment](https://configcat.com/docs/main-concepts/#environment) for which you want to analyze flags. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Environment:** Select the ConfigCat [environment](https://configcat.com/docs/main-concepts/#environment) for which you want to analyze flags. 
```

>   - **Tags:** Select the flags you want to ignore in the report based on their tags.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Tags:** Select the flags you want to ignore in the report based on their tags.
```

>   - **Stale in all/any selected environments:** Choose whether to include flags that are stale in all or any of the selected environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Stale in all/any selected environments:** Choose whether to include flags that are stale in all or any of the selected environments.
```

<img alt="My Zombie Flags Report page in the dashboard" src="/docs/assets/guide/my-zombie-flags-report/my-zombie-flags-report-page-in-the-dashboard_192dpi.png" width="1366" height="945" decoding="async" loading="lazy" />

#### Sample Email Report

Here's a preview of what the Zombie Flags report email looks like:

> <img alt="Zombie Flags Report Email" src="/docs/assets/guide/my-zombie-flags-report/zombie-flags-report-email_192dpi.png" width="1366" height="768" decoding="async" loading="lazy" />

Reviewer 2: I think it would be better to blur out the testuserfactingbcc@configcat.com email address on the screenshot.

### Using the Zombie Flags API

The [Zombie Flags API](https://api.configcat.com/docs/index.html#tag/Zombie-(stale)-flags) allows you to access your zombie flags using an API endpoint programmatically.

Here's a preview of what it looks like in Postman:

<img alt="Using the Zombie Flags API in Postman" src="/docs/assets/guide/my-zombie-flags-report/using-the-zombie-flags-api-in-postman_192dpi.png" width="1366" height="768" decoding="async" loading="lazy" />

## Other Tools for Identifying Unused Feature Flags

In addition to the methods mentioned, ConfigCat also provides several tools to help you detect and clean up unused feature flags:

- [Scan & Upload Code References](https://configcat.com/docs/advanced/code-references/overview): Track where feature flags appear in your code. 
- [The ConfigCat CLI](https://configcat.com/docs/advanced/cli): Detect flags still in your code that no longer exist in the ConfigCat Dashboard. 

> - [GitHub Action](https://configcat.com/docs/integrations/github/) and [CircleCI Orb](https://configcat.com/docs/integrations/circleci): Find feature flags in your code that you might want to remove.

Reviewer 2: I think the bitrise step and the bitbucket pipe could also be included here.
